While testing annyang out, it quickly became clear to me how expressionless and neutral my voice had to be for annyang to properly register the words I was saying. While the technology and library’s usage were appealing, I struggled to find a way I could implement it while reducing its error rate to a minimum.
After some thought, I got reminded of one of my favourite televised character whose whole personality revolves around pure neutrality: captain Raymond Holt from the American sitcom Brooklyn 99. By making the necessity of tone neutrality part of the game, it became easier to rely on annyang’s data for the core principles of the program.
Starting from the idea of having the player mimic Raymond Holt’s tone, I built a simple but effective game inspired by televised show like ‘who wants to be a millionaire?’ for the overall look and “Qui veut prendre sa place?” (France) for the different answer setups that are possible to chose from. By being able to chose from 2, 4 or no possible answers, it made me practice programming different kinds of event listeners like annyang, mousePressed, keyTyped, and keyPressed, which would have not been as easily configured if the player only had one way of answering the questions.
Although harder -- well, let’s face it, impossible-- for a player who has never seen the show to fill in the blanks correctly, this game remains very simple and light for someone who is familiar with the 99th precinct squad and was meant to remind players of the wholesomeness and hilarious sense of humor of Andre Braugher’s character. I did not implement a point system for similar reasons.
Lastly, my goal was also to store the levels’ parameters inside of one abstract level ‘canvas’ super class to make the program as efficient as possible and make it easier to add multiple levels with minimal modification in child classes. By doing this, I largely improved my OOP skills and feel better equipped to build larger programs that run smoothly.
