#ARTIST STATEMENT

I have always seen dressing up as a game; in retrospect, it has probably always been my favorite one. I have played flash games for hours as a kid and incorporated it as the largest part of my artistic practice.
Dress up games, tangible or coded, make one able to tell their own narrative through the way they present to the world, corporeal or digital. The fashion industry however --and by that I mean everything from manufacturing to merchandising and customer service to the newest tech solution, continuously digs a toxic dichotomy between two imaginary polar opposite that makes it extremely difficult for some to find a comfortable attire that suits them both in their gender expression and gender identity.

Let's not be mistaken here. Even if some of these issues are the produce of pure bigotry, the overwhelming majority stem from simple profitability. Long story short, clothing companies of any kind would much rather make the dollar on the customer rather then provide them with a wider and suitable array of clothes that would fit diverse body types. Even rendering a more diverse range of 3d avatars for digital dressing environments has been far from prioritized for some tech or game companies because of cost. This oblivion to the needs and desires of such a large portion of the population leaves some gender non-conforming and trans people without a suitable solution to present to the world, even in a digital environment.

Spectra was therefore born from the desire to critique this binary system created by the fashion industry to increase profit at the expense of customers' comfort and needs. Inspired by true events, the only character is based on a real person but symbolizes the compilation of things I have heard, seen, testified or been a part of in the last few years.

Spectra is a representation of ''literally any store ever'' that hypocritically gives out a body positive and diverse image while, in the end, limiting the freedom of expression of their customers. The employee gives out a faked out nice vibe and the game makes the player think they are able to choose both section but need to see one first. In the end, based on the gendered section the player chose, they are brought into the changing room where their biological sex, gender expression and gender identity are all assumed. At this point, they will hypocritically be presented with both gendered clothes sections, so as to give the illusion of choice. However, the player will really only be able to interact with the 'appropriate' clothes choices, being the ones in the conforming gender section.

Every time the player tries to drag a gender non-conforming garment on their avatar, the employee will come to 'take the garment away' and throw them a snarky comment. This will cause the game to break little by little, until player breaks the entire game and can no longer play. This breakage is meant as a hopefully but funny and sarcastic symbol of 'breaking' the fashion industry and having to build it back up into something more sustainable and suitable for everyone.

The entire user experience, inspired by early 2000s flash drag and drop dress up games, was centered around having a soothing but glitchy-like aesthetic. The point was to make it as hypocritically nice and inviting as digital or physical clothing stores are. The music, colors, comments and overall presentation give off an appeasing ambiance, but the player quickly notices that something is off. The employee's overly enthusiastic or sarcastic comment could not find their place in an actual dress up game. Things are already put in place for the player to question things.

The changing room was designed to be obviously divided between genders while giving the illusion that one could borrow from both wardrobe to try on clothes, just like in real or virtual clothing stores. When interacting with the clothes that conform to the gender of the assumed avatar, the player goes through a very typical drag and drop dress up game. They are able to put multiple clothes on the avatar and change its outfit as any conventional dress up game would allow.

When trying to interact with the opposite section however, the garments are not able to stick to the avatar and trigger a microaggression dialog scene from the store employee that further breaks the game by triggering filter effects, image flickering, and changing clothes animation.

The player (unknowingly) has 5 chances of breaking the game by choosing the 'wrong' clothing section before breaking the game completely and not being able to access the changing room anymore.

Going for a vaporwave and rough look made me able to incorporate aesthetically pleasing yet jarring glitch-like effects that still fit within the overall theme and color schemes of the game. It also made me able to play will simple yet fun p5 and JavaScript tools.

Working upstream by creating parent classes of dialog and changing rooms made me able to develop my coding skills and increase the modularity of my program, which is something I was really proud of achieving.

Overall, getting a better understanding of how my brain 'drawers' work and how that impacts the way I write my equations, objects and methods has been really eye opening and I look forward to furthering this understanding through more complex creative computation projects aligned with Spectra's thesis.

I did not set enough time aside to make the 'chill' version of the game work, so both buttons from the first dialog box lead the exact same way. I left it there because I would like to add it, as I believe not everyone has to be taught a lesson on the issues gendered clothes bring to some folks as they have already experienced or testified it themselves.
